# The Long-Term Goal

`gadflai` is an experimental, AI-centric alternative to existing software
development project management. Our goal is to manage software projects in a way
that emphasizes high-quality, natural language communication between
highly-skilled and competent contributors, encourages flat hierarchies, and
minimizes non-technical overhead.

# The Fundamental Problem

Information flow is one of the fundamental problems of project management,
especially when it comes to execution in particular. We manage information flow
using a variety of tools. We use telecommunications tools to send messages,
specialized user interfaces and databases to index and search for information,
hold meetings for live synchronization, and define processes for collaboration.
We hire managers and project managers and documentarians to mantain and
facilitate the whole thing.  So, _the fundamental problem is that everything
just described is extremely expensive_.

# The Hypotheses

The complex described in the previous section can be thought of as an
information-folding network. Each node in the network is some combination of
people and data stores, and each edge is a communication channel. We define
processes for certain sets of nodes and channels and we do our best to keep the
system from spinning out of control. We end up with systems that are genuinely
complex, extremely expensive, and impossible to maintain. Our first hypothesis
is that there are two fundamental root causes of the complexity:

1. Most of the information is unstructured, mostly natural language, and
   very difficult to index.
2. Humans are slow readers.
3. Humans can't multitask.

If we could index the data better or we could read way faster we would be able
to simplify the information architecture and just publish everything to a
central hub. We wouldn't need as many processes or as many managers because
information would flow more directly and more quickly. Additionally, we can't
really expect a human to manage multiple projects at once because of context
switching constraints. So, our second hypothesis is that large language models
can be used like an extremely fast-reading, fast-writing, multitasking human. By
injecting a language model into the system we can transform the complex
information network into a simple hub-and-spoke system with the language model
at the center.

# The Proof-of-Concept

In the near-but-not-immediate future we will implement a system where a project
can be configured with document specs, behavior goals, and directives. In the
near-but-not-immediate future we will implement multiple interfaces for
interacting with `gadflai`. In the immediate future, we'll implement the
following:

- TODO see the appendix

# Notes

- This is a first draft at analyzing and describing both the problem and the
solution, it could be significantly improved, and will be in the future.  - For
the first version, we'll focus on projects that basically conform to a GitHub
repository. For information sources we should probably avoid anything
GitHub-specific, but we will definitely build solutions that use GitHub actions.
- "Put everything in the repo" should be part of the design philosophy - "Pipe
everything through pull requests" should be part of the design philosophy

# Appendix

# Errata

# Reviews






